# One-On-One Meeting 2/27/2023

## My Progress
After last week's gorup meeting, I realized I should be looking into Ad hoc routing and 
security. A lot of the questions I have seem to already have been answered
as a repsonse to security flaws in ad hoc. The ad hoc routing protocls that
I hve been investigating are AODV. I also learned about DYMO, but haven't 
investigated too much.
I've been invesstigating the different types of attacks seen in MANETs. The
attacks that are sticking out to me the most are data control attacks. These 
attacks reduce the efficiency of the network by dropping packets, delaying 
packets, or sending them out of order. These attacks are effective ebcause 
mess with the control mechanisms of secure data trasnfer.
Along with investigating these attacks I am trying to understand how to 
prevent them. A lot of them methods are pretty simple, such as incrementing 
the sequence number at each node until it reaches the destination. That way 
when the destination node sends a unicast message back to the source node, 
every node along the route will expect a sequence number coming back. If the 
sequence number is higher or lower then expected, then you know that 
something went wrong. Another idea is to implement 2ACK, in this method when 
a source node sends a message off to its neighbor, then the neighbor's 
neighbor will ACK the source node that it got the data.

## Questions
- How to begin implementation?
- Where to simulate attacks?
- How to write attacks?
- Personal: Help understanding assembly language.

## Meeting Notes


## Things To Investigate
