# 2023 Week 5 meeting: 02/23/2023

## Summary of Previous Meeting 
Elliot asked about implementation for the networking side of things. He talked 
about how he has a few ideas in his mind, but isn't sure how well they could be 
implemented or if they'd be efficient at all. We got into a discussion that in 
a MANET environment at least one device will need to be connected to the 
internet. If the connected device only has one NIC, it will need to switch
between wireless mode and Adhoc mode. This means it will need to shut off 
communications on both sides of the interface. Dr. Ogden had an idea that if 
a node is connected directly to the exit node it will have a slightly larger 
buffer, and the further away from the node you are the greater the buffer is.
Another alternative, that takes away form the decentralized environement, is 
having a centralized server that acts as an exit node. 

## My Thoughts on the Previous Meeting
Before Dr. Ogden's input, I hadn't considered that an exit node will need to 
switch between wireless and adhoc mode. It seems that alot of these issues 
have already been dealt with during adhocs first implementation. Maybe I should
take a step back to understand the adhoc side of things and then come back to 
investigating MANETs.
I thought it was interesting that Dr. Ogden mentioned implementing an archi-
tecture that includes a centralized server. When I had talked with Elliot, I 
mentioned that I thought that having a centralized server in the topology could 
help facilitate malicious nodes.


## Optional: What we hear on the grapevine 

At work, someone came in asking us to look into setting up a server for TAK 
software. He mentioned GoTenna could be an alternative software for what they 
were trying to accomplish. GoTenna is a software used for Search-and-Rescue
missions and uses mesh networking to help keep officers connected. This is 
another thing we can look into since it is a real life implementation of what
we are researching


## Research Questions 

This section is the main part that contains your investigations. Each
subsection, e.g., [this one](#how-to-predict-distributed-training-speed),
should be named carefully. The section names should ideally summarize the theme
of the investigation. Your notes should serve as the key building blocks for
writing your first paper draft, getting relevant personnels to what you did. 

List your research questions here. There should be a 1-to-1 mapping between the research questions and a subsection below. The order of these questions should also be the same as the order of subsections below.

 - What are the next steps to take to start implementing what we are learning?
 - How do we set up a simulated environement? With our ESPs? WIth Software? Is their existing web labs for what we need?

### Predicting distributed training speed

If this is a new investigation, we need to start by: 
- The motivation/rationale of performing this investigation.
- clearly describing the exactly problem we are solving.  
- Clearly articulating the relationships to other investigations. 
- Proposed solutions. 
- Evaluation plans. 
- Evaluation results. 


## Discussions 
Elliot and I talked about our ideas. We both seem to have an interest in the 
trust aspect of MANETs. The question here is, how can we trust devices requesting
to joining the network? Elliot seemed to understand how to tackle the issue 
better than I did. He proposed writing some kind of protocol that understand the
processes running on a device. If a device doesn't meet a set of expectations, 
we just ignore it and stop all communications. My thought process would take 
away from the self-sustaining environment we are aiming for, but it still might
be worth it to jot my ideas down. I came up with an idea to delegate an exit node.
Based on how big the network is, an exit node's TTL will expire and pass on the 
role to a new node, it will broadcast a message and pass it onto a new node, the
now 'old' exit node will back off for some time (probably dpeneding on hwo big 
the network is). This could potentially lead to issues, since malicuous nodes 
could just ignore their TTL or set a really low back off time to just repeatedly 
claim the exit node role. I think this would classify as some type of blackhole
attack. WHich would decrease network efficiency.
